fifteen thousand years after the
construction of the first space colony
planet kepler 452 b 1400 light years
from old earth hello first year students
we're glad to welcome you to the
intergalactic university
endless space is now home for us humans
but thousands of years ago
we used to live on just one planet we
now call
old earth yes i understand it's
difficult to believe
today it's one huge nature reserve
mammoths and stegosaurs walk on its
surface and pterodactyls fly in its
skies
it turned out to be easier to recreate
animals that roamed it
millions of years ago than to understand
how our ancestors lived
the great cataclysm made them abandon
the planet in a hurry
leaving much of its legacy behind and
now we're studying it
anew but our excavations leave more
questions than answers
skyscrapers highways shopping centers
coffee shops
everything is buried under sand and soil
rust has eaten away the metal and time
turns concrete
into dust even the hoover dam and the
three gorges dam in china have crumbled
the colossal structures turned into
heaps of stones
the remaining buildings have become
overgrown with plants
and turned into a home for millions of
living creatures
but there's good news as well faces
carved into mount rushmore
are still visible the mountain is
granite
and this rock is one of the hardest on
old earth
for over 15 000 years the faces of u.s
presidents have deteriorated by only two
inches
the monument will stand for millions of
years
and the latest expedition to the sahara
desert managed to dig out the great
pyramid from the sand
now any tourist can buy a ticket and
look at that wonder
which even earthlings considered very
old
surprisingly ruins and crumbling walls
of medieval castles in europe
have survived they're built of massive
stones and without metal fittings
which expand and destroy the stone when
rusting
our ancestors left behind a huge amount
of garbage
empty bottles plastic packaging wrappers
all this helps scientists to recreate
the consumption patterns
of people of the past thanks to this
we know for sure that in the 2000s
almost 8 billion people
ate mostly chips chocolate bars and
pizza and
they rarely drank ordinary water they
loved coffee though
sixty percent of earthlings lived on the
internet for seven
hours a day two billion websites worked
24 7.
at first information was stored on hard
disks
flash drives and compact disks but this
kind of storage went
obsolete after a couple of years the
cloud
took their place it was an online
storage with servers connected to the
global network
they recorded the entire life of earth's
civilization
and were stored in data centers in space
the earth's internet didn't work well
apparently
huge distances and lack of technical
knowledge did their job
imagine that a pluto resident wants to
know the difference between margarita
and calzone pizzas
they click the link and wait for a
couple of hours for it to open
if the dough is already in the oven no
good
each colony organized its own internet
by sending satellites to orbit their
planets
it took time to connect thousands of
colonies into the intergalactic web
we now know as uni-net
when the cataclysm struck people had to
escape
leaving their planet to its fate
electricity went out
no one maintained the servers and data
centers and lots of info about their
civilization
was lost we've scanned miles deep into
the earth
and found many interesting artifacts
students
i invite you to look at this amazing
thing the earthlings called it
a camera people took pictures of their
food
morning runs and new shoes on it one
thing our scientists couldn't comprehend
though
is that ancient people used to
communicate with its help too
one of the main mysteries of the past
are the dishes of different sizes
archaeologists find them in almost every
home they bear these names
buddy cosmo rex princess
we know these were the things from which
dogs and cats eat
but we don't know why people pampered
these animals so much
for example archaeologists recently
unearthed a beauty salon for poodles
in san francisco i also love my dragon
from the jungles of galicia 832c
but i don't perm its fur and manicure
its claws
[Music]
and this is my favorite artifact a book
there's nothing more valuable in the
universe there's only one sample
in my antiques collection it's a cooking
recipes anthology
i paid a fortune for it the ruins of
museums are treasures for archaeologists
and all the new humanity
these buildings collapsed a long time
ago and now look like ordinary hills
overgrown with trees and grass museums
are like pearls in the ocean
they lie at the bottom and wait to be
fished from their shells
and sometimes archaeologists manage that
books paintings documents and clothes
have mostly turned to dust
but we can enjoy the statues that were
carved out of marble
by masters of ancient greece and rome
on the walls of caves around the world
there are drawings of animals
and handprints of the first people they
didn't know how to read
drive a car or fly a spaceship but
their paintings have survived it's
incredible
over thousands of years time has eaten
up huge dams
cities with skyscrapers and bridges and
the palm of an ancient human
still adorns the cold and rough wall of
a cave
space archaeology is becoming more and
more popular
thousands of tons of space debris fly
around old earth
the real sensation is the discovery of
the voyager 1 probe
earthlings sent it into space at the
very beginning of their development
i see your condescending smiles today
such a device can be assembled by any
first-year student from spare parts in
their parents garage
but dear students let's not laugh at our
ancestors
they tried their best voyager isn't a
simple satellite
the device can be compared to a message
in a bottle
thrown into the sea and the cosmic sea
is millions of times larger than the
pacific ocean
of old earth engineers of the past
left a time capsule with a message in
the probe
it contains photographs of people and
the nature of the planet
as well as scientific information about
the earth
90 minutes of recorded music are of
particular interest
this is a real gift from our ancestors
to us to the people of space
radio signals that humankind sent into
space have also
survived we've tracked them radio
broadcasts
phone conversations even music charts
continue their journey through space
millions of years later they'll weaken
and leave behind
only an electromagnetic echo in 2020
there were 1.4 billion cars on old earth
unbelievable but they moved along
asphalted roads on rubber tires
not in the air when humans flew into
space
they left their vehicles on the planet
within just a couple hundred years
the cars went completely bust and turned
into piles of metal
plastic and rubber one that survived for
millennia
was the lunar roving vehicle there's no
air
no water and no earthquakes on the moon
anything that comes here becomes kind of
suspended in time
and that's what happened to the rover
archaeologists have found a lot of other
whole
and crash spacecraft on the moon these
devices
are priceless artifacts in the museum of
primitive earth technology
in the svalbard archipelago in the
arctic ocean
scientists have unearthed the global
seed vault
earthlings built it in 2008 it became a
real sensation
the huge silo contained 4.5 million
samples of 500 seeds each
billions of seeds have helped provide
agriculture for the colonies
now you can eat popcorn and hamburgers
with real bread rolls
thanks to those for thousands of years
the seeds were kept without human
attention this isn't a miracle
but an accurate scientific calculation
the vault is built underground at a
depth of 390 feet
there are no earthquakes or floods there
and the permafrost
provided the optimum temperature for the
seeds to survive
most metals are mined from ore these
ores don't contain
pure metals but only their chemical
compounds
to get pure iron the ore must be smelted
first
but there's a problem metals from ore
oxidize on contact with water or
oxygen simply put they rust
this is how metal returns to its natural
ore state
that's why nails metal fences bridges
and houses
rust and collapse but this doesn't
happen with gold
silver and platinum things made from
these metals
are eternal and will never lose their
shape of course
if you don't start hitting the rings and
pennants with a hammer
during excavations archaeologists find
thousands of jewelry items
earthlings love to wear them on their
bodies crowns
luxurious necklaces wedding rings all
this jewelry
is now history kept in galactic museums